>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
welcome back from the coercion exercise.
Hopefully you found that
an interesting challenge.
Let's start, again, remember the read me
says we want an is valid name function.
So we'll start by defining isValidName().
It needs to take a name, and
it needs to assert several things.
First off, that it is a string.
Secondly, that it contains at least
something that's not only white space,
and the stuff that it contains that's
not white space has to be at least
three characters long, okay?
So first off, we wanna make sure
that the typeof name == "string".
Here I'm using the double equals
with the type of operator because we
know that the type of operator
always returns strings.
And we know that it always
returns non-empty strings,
so we know we're safely out of
the corner cases, if you will.
So if (typeof name == "string"),
and,
>> Kyle Simpson: We also wanna
make sure that we don't consider any only
white space that may be in the string,
in terms of our length check, that is.
So one built-in way to do that with
JavaScript strings is the trim method.
So we can say if name.trim(),
which trims off any weight space
from either side, and if what is
left is at least of length three,
then we know we have a valid string.
>> Kyle Simpson: Did I use greater than,
or greater than or equal?
Yeah, I'm sorry, >= 3, okay?
In that case, we wanna return true,
and otherwise we can return false.
Now, you could simplify
this a little bit to simply
return that expression if
that's your preference.
You could not have an if statement here.
Just being illustrative of
the decision making that we make,
which is are we in a success condition?
Great, we return true,
otherwise we're not, and we return false.
So if we just test this right away,
we should get that test to pass, and
we should get these six tests to pass,
and everything else should fail.
I don't wanna get errors,
so I'm gonna just define
an hoursAttended() and
have it return nothing for us.
So all the rest of those should fail.
So let's try,
>> Kyle Simpson: Over in the console.
Again, you could run that via Node,
if that feels more comfortable to you.
But let's run it over here in the console,
and
let's see if it prints out
the results we're expecting.
So the first test returns true, which is
good, and then we have several failures.
Four failures, and then we have one, two,
three, four, five, six successes, so
we see that is valid name is
passing our test three, okay?
That's good progress.
Let's move on to hoursAttended.
Now, this one was a little bit more
complex but not significantly so,
it takes in two parameters.
Remember we're gonna call those attended,
meaning the number of hours that you
attended a workshop, and
the length of the workshop.
Now, we're trying to make sure
that what was inputted is valid,
that you attended not more hours
than the workshop actually attended,
you don't wanna get extra credit there.
So the read me says we wanna make sure
that these are either strings or numbers,
and that regardless of which one they
are we're gonna treat them as numbers.
So if the attended is a string then
we wanna turn it into a number, okay?
So first off we could say if
the (typeof attended == "string").
And you recall that it's going to,
I'll just double check here.
Yep, we recall that we need to make sure
that we're not getting an empty
string coerced into a zero,
cuz that's not the same thing
as somebody typing in zero here.
So that's a little corner case
that we wanna take care of.
So we're gonna say if type of
attendant is a string, and
we're gonna use our
little friend trim again.
And attended.trim() is not
equal to empty string.
So we don't want any white space only or
empty strings to fit in here.
But if we have a non-empty string,
then let's go ahead and
try to make it into a number.
So here we could say
attended = Number(attended).
Now, here's where I diverge a bit from
standard crowd that, for example,
like static typing, cuz they don't like
to reassign a variable to its new type.
I think this is a perfectly valid example
of reassigning variables with a different
type, when you are explicitly changing the
type for some purpose, like we are here.
So that's one of the reasons why
I don't like it when tools complain
at me about reassigning over types.
Okay, so we're gonna do the same
thing that we just did for attended,
we also wanna do that for
the length variable.
So I will just duplicate that and
change the variable to length.
We could probably factor that out into
a function, but [SOUND] who cares?
Okay, so now we know that if it was passed
in as a string, it has become a number.
If it was a number, it's still a number.
But we don't know that you might have
passed in something like null or
undefined, so we still actually need
to check that both of these are numbers
before we do something.
So our check means to first say,
if typeof attended == "number"
&& typeof length == "number".
If either one of those is not true,
we're gonna bail out, right?
So here is our if statement, and
then we're gonna bail out, and
that means we end up returning false.
This didn't pass the validation.
But there's more that we need
to check besides just the fact
that they are numbers.
If you recall in the read me,
it said we wanna make sure that
they're treated as numbers.
They need to be 0 or higher.
So we need to check not
only that they are numbers,
but we need to also see that
attended >= 0, and length >= 0.
The read me also says that
they need to be whole numbers,
meaning they can't be like 3.14,
or 9.1 as in the test cases.
So if you did a quick check on
mdn you might have found that
there is a utility built into
JavaScript specially for this.
And it's called Number.isInteger, that
tells us if we have a thing that is, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I mean, I think you actually
casted it as a number in the first
part, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So
they're are always gonna be numbers
afterwards probably [CROSSTALK]
>> Kyle Simpson: They are,
because if I pass in a null here then
it's not gonna go into this clause and
it's gonna still be null here.
>> Speaker 2: Uh-huh.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
that's why I have to check to
make sure that it's actually a number.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Right, cuz we want
to allow strings and numbers, but
if you pass in anything else, you're
gonna fail the validation, if you will.
Passing a null fails the validation.
Okay, so we're gonna check to make sure
that attended is actually an integer.
And we're gonna check that,
>> Kyle Simpson: Length is
actually an integer.
That really literally just says doesn't
have any fractional component on it,
basically what it's doing, right?
So checking that it's a whole number,
all right?
And then the final thing
that the read me says
is that attended has to be less than or
equal to length.
Well, since we definitely know we're
dealing with well formed numbers at this
point, we don't have any NaNs, or
infinities, or any of that other stuff.
Then it's a very safe check for
us to say, attended <= length.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we've restricted
the overall surface area that could
have possibly gotten us into corner cases.
Into what is a fairly straightforward
set of checks to validate
that what we're passing in is
what we want to be passed in.
And we're eliminating any
of those corner cases,
like somebody passed in
an array with a number in it or
anything else bonkers like that, okay?
If we have passed all of these
checks then we can return true,
and if that didn't pass,
then we can return false.
Same thing as before,
we could now refactor that to
a single return statement.
I just wanted you to get the point of
how we build up those test cases, okay?
So let's now test this
code over in our console,
and we should get all trues now, so
run this code and we get all trues, yay.
All right, so we've written
a couple of validator functions,
point being wanted to get
you familiar with the idea
working with these primitive values and
the ways that they can be coerced.
And still not go off the rails
into those crazy corner cases.
Protect yourself against
those corner cases.
There are of course lots of ways that you
could have implemented either one of these
functions.
Instead of doing a .length or
checking for something,
you could have used a regular expression.
But the spirit of this was to use what
we know about primitive types and
about the checks that our coercion say,
okay?